So now we're gonna go into section 3.
All right, I know I backed away from
the computer so I didn't mute myself.
I don't know if you saw
that I got really excited.
I don't wanna mute it all.
But this is tools in the future.
Yes, the future, not just 2021 but
even further beyond, but
first we're gonna take
a quick pit stop in tools.
Cuz tools are fantastic.
I just wanna highlight a couple of them.
So let's do this.
I call this part git the cool parts.
Really, I know that most people probably
use git, I just assume use git.
It's kind of like the hot thing for
like the last decade at least.
I really liked git.
But for about eight years, I really
only knew about push pull and rebase.
Right?
That was me.
I rebased, I pushed, I pulled, William,
I know you're around on
the stream from time to time.
So you probably already know partially
where I'm going at this point with this,
but there's this feature.
That's really awesome.
It's called work trees and
most people don't know about them.
How do I know most people don't work?
No bottom, well just this year Guido
van Rossum the Guido himself said why
did I not know about get worktree, right?
Sad face classic,
1990 sad face has the nose and everything.
So people really don't
know about these features.
It's true.
Like these are weird features that
are hard to like you just you never
run into them, right?
You have no reason to run into them
because you're always just simply checking
something out.
What you don't realize is you're
actually in a work tree when you check
something out, but
it's a little bit different.
There's better ways to work with it.
So what is the work tree?
Well, there's a lot of ways, let's see.
So how would you describe a work tree
a word tree simply is a commit in time.
Just like if you're on master,
you're at technically art.
Actually add a commit, right?
You're not all of the commits
before it's do not make the branch.
The current commit is
really what the branch is.
And that's just a named commit.
It's kind of how I think about it.
A work tree is just a named commit, right?
You're just gonna say hey, I'm gonna go to
this, this commit at this point in time,
you can have several work trees at once.
Meaning that you don't have to just have
this one that you're always working on.
You can have several of them at once.
It's quite fantastic.
You can do it without having
bear repos and all that.
But I suggest using bear posts will
kind of get into it here right away.
So there's a lot of ways,
but I'm just gonna show you,
you can read up on strategies.
You don't have to use a bear repo,
I just prefer it that way.
So here we go.
So let's check out my favorite
project in the universe,
which is the one I've been
working on called refactoring.
Now, for whatever reason we're
gonna just do it inside of my temp,
for whatever reason,
when you do a git clone bare.
What will end up happening is that it
actually adds the dot git as part of
the name.
Normally, when you clone something
out you don't get that dot.
You don't get the dot on the end
it just drops it, but bare for
whatever reason refuses to drop it.
So you always get the docket.
So I always have a name afterwards.
So I name it, I'm gonna clone from
this repo, and I'm gonna name it this.
There we go.
So we're gonna go,
we're gonna clone, it's fantastic.
Awesome, we have it.
Let's cd into refactoring.
And what do we have here?
Well, this looks not what
you're kinda used to, right?
And if I go like this, git status,
it's like I don't even know
what you're talking about?
What's this status business, right?
You're not in a work tree.
So this is not how normally git works,
right?
This is just not how it works.
So, this is a little bit different,
but it does have a git folder.
So if we go LS dash LA, you'll notice
there is a git folder somewhere else,
nevermind that the information
is just all spread here.
Sorry, it doesn't have a git
folder blah blah blah but
there is always all that
information in there.
This is effectively your git folder,
right?.
It has a bunch of that in there.
So how do we know what's available?.
Well, we can start off with git,
work tree list.
It's gonna say, hey,
this is what you have,
which currently is nothing fantastic,
right?.
So how do we know what to use, like right?
Well guess what,
let's use man to start of with, right?
Man git-worktree, here we go, I think the
first sentence is pretty good, let's see.
A git repository can support
multiple work trees,
allowing you to check out more than one
branch at a time, with git worktree add.
Also we kinda already know what's going on
here a new work tree is associated with
the repository.
This working tree is also
called a linked working tree,
as opposed to the main working tree
prepared by a git init or git clone.
So there you go.
So whenever you check out with just git
clone, you have a main working tree.
Now this one's a little bit different,
all right?
We're actually selecting
which ones we want.
A repository has one main working tree,
if it's not a bear repo, right?
And zero or more linked working trees.
When you're done with linked working
trees, you can remove it with git or
tree remove, or you can delete
the folder and use get work tree prune.
I added that last part because it's part
of Griffin, he just got to keep going,
just got to keep going.
All right, so also it's really great,
we can use cht.sh.
My goodness, it's like we're
already ready to use these things.
So I'm just gonna go like this cht.sh.
Here we go,
it's actually using something called TLDR.
So we don't even need to use cht.sh we
could actually just use TLDR go git.
I think it's worktree I always
forget how to use this.
You use the TLDR here.
My goodness, dash.
There it is.
Alright dash.
Always forget how to use word tree.
Okay, so we need to do get work tree
add path to directory branch name,
we can create a new branch
by using the dashboard.
So a lot like git checkout
dashboard creates a new branch.
We can do get worked through your list and
get worked reproved.
So there's a lot of its major operations
we kind of now just know how to use them.
So let's use one.
Let's go, git work tree add master up,
we got to do two things, right?
Master, because that's the path
plus this one, it already exists.
We can't just do that.
So is it B?
No, it already exists.
So why didn't that work out?
Do I already have master checked out?
I do.
It's right here.
Silly me.
It comes with it.
So let's check out something else.
Let's check out a new work tree, right?
So let's go -b and go foo, right?
And let's create a branch called foo.
There we go,
we now have a branch called foo.
So if we real ls in here, we'll see
that we have a new folder called foo.
It's right there.
If we do git worktree list,
you'll notice that we have these
two beautiful things right here.
I must have actually added
master at some point.
I don't know why I didn't see that before,
anyways either way,
you'll see it right here.
We have these two.
So that means when I go into say foo and
I look at it,
it actually is my repository, right here.
This like genuinely is my repository.
This is equivalent doing a git clone,
this is my working tree.
So let's make it more obvious.
All right, we're gonna go in here
we're gonna go to, let's go to 106.
Here we go.
I'm gonna put a space in here.
I'm gonna go to GS.
You'll notice that I'm in head foo.
Where it's at all those things so I'm
gonna go over here and I'm gonna check out
master for a quick second right
master does not have that right?
Master does not have that.
So look at that I just went from
one branch that has an act of
change right now going to another
branch that doesn't have it.
Right, I just switched
between those two branches.
And they both exist on my system
at the exact same time, right?
They're both still right here,
master and foo.
So if I were to go see the foo,
git status,
I actually have a change right here.
And if I were to go back to my main
branch right here, I'd go git status.
It has nothing in it.
So this is one of the huge I think
superpowers of git work trees.
When would I not use these?
When would I not I always use work
trees if I have the chance to like so
when I did the Gatsby course you
have to check it out using Gatsby.
Gatsby does not allow me
to use working trees.
I can't do linked working trees
the way I normally would like to.
So it kind of it breaks my workflow.
But on every other project,
I effectively use work trees.
And if you have something that
has like a strict build to it,
something that has like, especially
if you work on a version system,
work trees are 10 times better, right?
Because now you have all these separate
versions that each have their own builds
associated with them.
You can kinda keep them
all independently and
all independently checked
out at the exact same time.
It is kinda works out with web apps
when you're talking about JavaScript.
The difference is that
when you check it out,
you have a new place in which
you need to do an NPM install.
The nice part is if you have a good
integrated editor with work trees,
you could set up a hook.
So that the moment you
check out a new branch,
it auto kicks off like an NPM install or
a yarn install.
So it could actually do all the setup for
your branch without you even seeing it.
So by the time the 40 seconds go by or
however long it takes for
you to install and
get your stuff up and running.
It could already be ready for you per
branch, meaning you don't have to rely
on this weird state of making
sure you're always up to date.
It can do all those things for you.
Every time you switch branches,
you can do another,
NPM installed to make sure your pack
is all your lock is all correct.
And all that it's really.
I really like it.
The only downside obviously is that you
literally have like a gigabyte of node
modules on your system.
Just because there's so many,
I hear it's heavier than a black hole, but
like it's a lot of stuff
inside of node modules.
To me, that would be the only real
downfall to this is that you just have to
do these actions per checkout.
As opposed to having most of your node
modules already set up from one checkout
to the next.
But to me,
just having some good linked up to link.
Gets rid of that problem anyways,
I don't really care disk space is cheap.
I use it all the time.
I love these things.
I think it's fantastic.
And the best part about it is like
Sam right here, I can still go and
I can fetch origin and update everything.
So that means if I'm on one branch, so
let's just do something really quickly.
I know people aren't going to
be that excited about this.
But let's do it anyway.
So I'm gonna go to my main branch, right?.
We're gonna go up there,
I'm gonna go to 106.
And I'm gonna go I think
it was right here.
I'm gonna save this go here.
I'm gonna take that CC, live test.
Sorry about the command, whatever.
Go here, go here.
Quit get push.
I am technically using my most
popular open source repo.
People are gonna get this dumb commit
right in the middle of their stuff.
Who knows?
I put the space there, right?
So now let's go and
let's check out Fu again.
So there's Fu.
Now Fu happens to have a space right here.
So here I'm gonna put
that space right here and
I'm gonna make the commit right now,
testing, right?
And now we need the rebase, right?
So I'm going to fetch from origin.
Everything's updated.
So technically I can git rebase foo.
I can get rebase from master.
Right.
So rebasing,
everything still works, right?
So just rewind that and put it on top
of it, it must been able to tell hey,
you're doing the exact same commit.
I'm sure if I would have done something
a little bit smarter right there,
I could have caused a merge
conflict a little bit easier.
But it works no different than if
you're just working on a single kind of
the main working tree style.
Where you can still rebase and
you can still rebase from another branch.
It just simply,
you now have multiple branches,
which means you can have
multiple things running at once.
I don't know if he ever did this,
where you're working on something.
You're making some progress someone
says hey, I need some help.
Can you help me with this?
You know this other thing.
So what do you have to do?
Either at the stash it or
you have to commit it with some sort of
don't forget to squash me later message.
You do that you go,
you check out something else.
You hydrate everything back up.
And now you're running on this new one.
And then when you're done with that,
you have to take it all down,
go back to the other one and
either make sure that everything's working
correctly on that one or unstash it.
And make sure the build and
everything is correct on this other one.
With work trees, you just don't even have
that as part of your workflow, right?
I just simply need to
create a new work tree.
I have a nice script to do it for me at
this point, but here, I'll just quit and
do right here.
I'm okay, I need a new work tree.
Git checkout, my goodness work tree add.
They help-someone one, right?
This is my path.
I want a new branch and
help-someone, right?
We'll name them the same thing.
There we go.
We have a new one right there.
And so now it's right there,
it's right here.
So we could actually have that
thing checked out from the latest
commit from master right there.
Fantastic.
It just works and I just love that.
To me this is one of the greatest features
that people just don't know about.
You can really take advantage of a lot
cooler things and I feel like it's just as
way less cumbersome than the old
way I just hated the old way.
It just made me nuts.
Right.
You can still use stashing to write
I did forget to talk about this.
So let's go.
Let's go to foo, we got a foo.
Awesome.
Let's check out 106 there we go.
Do that go here, right here.
There we go.
We have this I can stash it.
I just stash that.
And now I can go back to master.
Right and there we go.
It's right here and then I can go and
I can get stash pop right?
I popped it there we go.
There's the space, right so
you can still get.
You can stash from one tree and
bring it over to another tree, right?
It all the same.
It's just now every check out or
every commit can have its own directory.
So to me awesome.
I love it.
It's fantastic.
All right, question.
>> What happens when you push a changeup
scream after entry is created.
>> It's the exact same thing effectively.
So I created foo right?
So now what I can do is let's go back and
let's check out foo.
So if I were to go in here,
let's close this thing down like this.
Git branch.
All right, there's a bunch of branches but
look, I have little plus sign.
So normally you just have a single item,
right inside of this list.
But in this one, it's all the work trees
that I have versus all the other branches.
So I can have like this.
I can go git push origin foo, right?
I'm gonna push to my origin foo.
And when I go to GitHub refactoring,
you'll notice right away it's no different
than if I just checked out a commit.
Right, is I'm gonna have
something called foo.
I don't know why it's not showing up.
It's because it's
identical to master right?
But I will have in here foo.
So it's not different.
Just treat them like
they are checkout right.
That's what a work tree is.
Remember when you do git clone some
project you're in a work tree.
You're just in the main work tree.
When you do a git check or clone bare,
you can only use linked work trees,
which means you specify each one.
So that's why when I did git branch,
I actually had multiple of them.
So let's go like this.
Let's do anything.
Let's go grep.
What does that star or plus, there we go.
So I have these three work trees all
checked out at the exact same time,
and I can go between them at any point.
So they're no different than
just a standard checkout.
It's just that they're simply separated
by path to me just makes
it way more convenient.
There you go.
That's the pros and cons.
Really the only con I can see is that
it's a little bit more work all right?
So I don't know what, VS code has for
integration, but because, by the way I use
vim I don't know if I type on Dvorak to I
don't know if you know that by the way.
But I don't know the exact
tools that it has.
So therefore,
I can't tell you how convenient it is.
But because I wrote the actual tool to
work with work trees in git, and I use
fugitive, I have it like perfectly and
seamlessly working the exact way I want.
In fact, it works so well inside of my
vim experience that I actually have
something called git work tree.
Where I can go in here.
Let's see what is it,
print hello and then go, op, path,
upstream, there we go,
close all those things, reopen up vim.
And whenever I change a tree, it will go
through here and it will tell me Hey,
I've just switched the table.
I've done all these things, or
I've just switched it gives me a table,
it tells me what happened.
So therefore, I can actually
take all this information and
I could create hooks into tmux.
Right?
So, right when I switched that branch,
you know what I could have done?
I could have created a command
to go out to the system,
create a new tmux window using detach so
it doesn't take over my current window.
Remember detach is a thing, right?
So I could have, just to show you.
T mux new window d look at that it created
a new window without me even seeing it.
I could have created a new window
with the command NPM install.
So could have done that in the background
every single time I switch branches so
I know it's always up to date,
whatever I'm working on at any
point I can do that through them.
So very good kind of creamy experience
that that creamy beige we all want, right?
That's a weird way to say it.
I've watched too much old Greg.
Alright.
That is that there we go.
That's pros and cons.
Really.
I I think there's way too many pros versus
the cons.
Like I said,
maybe a lot of NPM modules you'll probably
have like a tonne like a gigabyte.
But honestly,
I have 595 gigabytes left right now
I could have a lot of node modules.